frontend/README.adoc, before:

:toc: macro
:toc-title:

toc::[]
= Kiali UI

== Introduction

A UI for the Kiali Istio Observability Project

== Quick Start
[source,shell]
----
# Get the kiali-ui sources
git clone https://github.com/kiali/kiali.git
cd kiali/frontend

# Install Yarn
npm install -g yarn

# Install kiali-ui dependencies
yarn

# Start a development server
yarn start
----

[NOTE]
On some platforms, `yarn start` may fail with an error like `Error: ENOSPC: System limit for number of file watchers reached`. To fix this, you need to increase the limit of file watchers on your system. The command may vary depending on the platform, please refer to link:https://github.com/guard/listen/wiki/Increasing-the-amount-of-inotify-watchers[these instructions].

A new browser window should automatically open.
But, if it doesn't then use: `http://localhost:3000`
(or whatever address is told by the `yarn start` command).

This launches a development environment that instantly
reloads any changes to the browser for rapid development.

== Directory Structure
* `build`: Production build output
* `public`: Home of index.html
* `src`: Source and test code
* `src/actions`:  Redux actions
* `src/app`: React top level component
* `src/assets`: Images and other assets
* `src/components`: React Components
* `src/config`: Configuration
* `src/fonts`:  Fonts
* `src/helpers`:  Utility functions and components
* `src/img`:  Patternfly Images
* `src/pages`: Top level pages and nested components
* `src/reducers`: Redux reducers
* `src/services`: Api services
* `src/store`:  Redux store definitions
* `src/styles`:  Application wide styles
* `src/types`: Typescript definitions for all kinds of types
* `src/utils`: Various Utilities

== Developing

The Kiali UI is a React application written in Typescript.

We use `yarn` as the package manager, if adding dependencies to `package.json`
make sure you install them with `yarn` and commit the `yarn.lock` file.

=== Testing with Kiali

When developing, it is usual to run this application outside of https://github.com/kiali/kiali[kiali].

It is possible to proxy the API requests without having to push the changes to kiali.
Add the https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app/blob/master/packages/react-scripts/template/README.md#proxying-api-requests-in-development[proxy]
property to `package.json` with the url of kiali.
[source, json]
----
{
  "name": "kiali-ui",
  "version": "0.2.1",
  "proxy": "http://kiali-istio-system.127.0.0.1.nip.io",
  "bugs": {
...
----
For a video on getting a Kiali-ui development environment running please see (complete with tips/tricks):

video::v4MN04nQNCU[youtube]

If Kiali is configured with a specific web root, make sure to append it to the URL. On many setups with Kubernetes, the web root will be `/kiali` by default.

Run `yarn start` and try it!
[source, bash]
----
$ curl -u admin:admin http://localhost:3000/api
Namespaces: [default istio-system kube-public kube-system myproject openshift openshift-infra openshift-node]

Namespace: default Services [docker-registry kubernetes router]

Service Name: docker-registry
Service Labels:
docker-registry = default
Type: ClusterIP
...
----

=== Integration Testing

Integration testing is done with cypress. More information can be found link:./cypress/README.md[here].

=== Styling
https://www.patternfly.org/[PatternFly] is the main UI components framework. It defines style based on SASS preprocessor.
All Patternfly build assets are copied to `src`.
Any React component may have its related SCSS file (such as `App.scss` - this one includes all PatternFly Sass along with
PatternFly React Sass extensions).
Once Sass compiles, the resulting CSS can be found next to its SCSS counterpart (ex: `src/app/App.css`).

To compile CSS, run:
[source,shell]
----
yarn build-css
----

Note:
Only static assets which are `import` 'ed into your application will be included in your resulting build output.

=== Style Code Guide

See the link:https://github.com/kiali/kiali/blob/master/STYLE_GUIDE.adoc#frontend-typescript[STYLE CODE GUIDE file].

=== Testing
To run the tests, the standard command `yarn test` is valid,
but since some tests are using link:https://facebook.github.io/jest/docs/en/snapshot-testing.html[snapshots] the preferred command is to update them in the same time:
[source,shell]
----
yarn test -u
----

Then hit `a` to run all tests.

After running the tests, if any snapshot has been modified (check git status),
the diff should be reviewed to make sure it's an intentional or trivial change.
Modified snapshots must be part of the commit so that they're reviewed collectively and won't make CI build fail.

Note: for OS/X users testing requires watchman to be installed
[source,shell]
----
brew install watchman
----

== Production Builds
Use `yarn build` which will bundle the build artifacts using webpack into the `build` directory.

== Analyze Javascript Library Size
To produce a graphical representation of the all the libraries in the project (showing what % of total each one is).
[source,shell]
----
yarn build
yarn run analyze
----
Which will then launch a browser with your graphical source map displayed.

== License and Copyright
See the link:https://github.com/kiali/kiali/blob/master/LICENSE[LICENSE file].

Commit message:

remove snyk, we will use dependabot - this also solves a security alert for a snyk dep

frontend/README.adoc, after:

:toc: macro
:toc-title:

toc::[]
= Kiali UI

== Introduction

A UI for the Kiali Istio Observability Project

== Quick Start
[source,shell]
----
# Get the kiali-ui sources
git clone https://github.com/kiali/kiali.git
cd kiali/frontend

# Install Yarn
npm install -g yarn

# Install kiali-ui dependencies
yarn

# Start a development server
yarn start
----

[NOTE]
On some platforms, `yarn start` may fail with an error like `Error: ENOSPC: System limit for number of file watchers reached`. To fix this, you need to increase the limit of file watchers on your system. The command may vary depending on the platform, please refer to link:https://github.com/guard/listen/wiki/Increasing-the-amount-of-inotify-watchers[these instructions].

A new browser window should automatically open.
But, if it doesn't then use: `http://localhost:3000`
(or whatever address is told by the `yarn start` command).

This launches a development environment that instantly
reloads any changes to the browser for rapid development.

== Directory Structure
* `build`: Production build output
* `public`: Home of index.html
* `src`: Source and test code
* `src/actions`:  Redux actions
* `src/app`: React top level component
* `src/assets`: Images and other assets
* `src/components`: React Components
* `src/config`: Configuration
* `src/fonts`:  Fonts
* `src/helpers`:  Utility functions and components
* `src/img`:  Patternfly Images
* `src/pages`: Top level pages and nested components
* `src/reducers`: Redux reducers
* `src/services`: Api services
* `src/store`:  Redux store definitions
* `src/styles`:  Application wide styles
* `src/types`: Typescript definitions for all kinds of types
* `src/utils`: Various Utilities

== Developing

The Kiali UI is a React application written in Typescript.

We use `yarn` as the package manager, if adding dependencies to `package.json`
make sure you install them with `yarn` and commit the `yarn.lock` file.

=== Testing with Kiali

When developing, it is usual to run this application outside of https://github.com/kiali/kiali[kiali].

It is possible to proxy the API requests without having to push the changes to kiali.
Add the https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app/blob/master/packages/react-scripts/template/README.md#proxying-api-requests-in-development[proxy]
property to `package.json` with the url of kiali.
[source, json]
----
{
  "name": "kiali-ui",
  "version": "0.2.1",
  "proxy": "http://kiali-istio-system.127.0.0.1.nip.io",
  "bugs": {
...
----
For a video on getting a Kiali-ui development environment running please see (complete with tips/tricks):

video::v4MN04nQNCU[youtube]

If Kiali is configured with a specific web root, make sure to append it to the URL. On many setups with Kubernetes, the web root will be `/kiali` by default.

Run `yarn start` and try it!
[source, bash]
----
$ curl -u admin:admin http://localhost:3000/api
Namespaces: [default istio-system kube-public kube-system myproject openshift openshift-infra openshift-node]

Namespace: default Services [docker-registry kubernetes router]

Service Name: docker-registry
Service Labels:
docker-registry = default
Type: ClusterIP
...
----

=== Integration Testing

Integration testing is done with cypress. More information can be found link:./cypress/README.md[here].

=== Styling
https://www.patternfly.org/[PatternFly] is the main UI components framework. It defines style based on SASS preprocessor.
All Patternfly build assets are copied to `src`.
Any React component may have its related SCSS file (such as `App.scss` - this one includes all PatternFly Sass along with
PatternFly React Sass extensions).
Once Sass compiles, the resulting CSS can be found next to its SCSS counterpart (ex: `src/app/App.css`).

To compile CSS, run:
[source,shell]
----
yarn build-css
----

Note:
Only static assets which are `import` 'ed into your application will be included in your resulting build output.

=== Style Code Guide

See the link:https://github.com/kiali/kiali/blob/master/STYLE_GUIDE.adoc#frontend-typescript[STYLE CODE GUIDE file].

=== Testing
To run the tests, the standard command `yarn test` is valid,
but since some tests are using link:https://facebook.github.io/jest/docs/en/snapshot-testing.html[snapshots] the preferred command is to update them in the same time:
[source,shell]
----
yarn test -u
----

Then hit `a` to run all tests.

After running the tests, if any snapshot has been modified (check git status),
the diff should be reviewed to make sure it's an intentional or trivial change.
Modified snapshots must be part of the commit so that they're reviewed collectively and won't make CI build fail.

Note: for OS/X users testing requires watchman to be installed
[source,shell]
----
brew install watchman
----

== Testing Libraries for Vulnerabilities
We use github Dependabot for vulnerability testing. Dependabot runs regularly on the `kiali/kiali` repository.

== Production Builds
Use `yarn build` which will bundle the build artifacts using webpack into the `build` directory.

== Analyze Javascript Library Size
To produce a graphical representation of the all the libraries in the project (showing what % of total each one is).
[source,shell]
----
yarn build
yarn run analyze
----
Which will then launch a browser with your graphical source map displayed.

== License and Copyright
See the link:https://github.com/kiali/kiali/blob/master/LICENSE[LICENSE file].
